doc/src/explore/devnet.md, before:

---
title: Experiment with Sui DevNet
---

Welcome to the beginnings of the Sui DevNet. It exists now to gain operational experience with the Sui software in a public setting. The Sui DevNet currently consists of:

* A four-validator network with all nodes operated by Mysten Labs. Clients send transactions and read requests via this endpoint: https://gateway.devnet.sui.io:443/ using [JSON-RPC](../build/json-rpc.md)
* A public network [Sui Explorer](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/explorer/client#readme) for browsing the TestNet transaction history: https://explorer.devnet.sui.io
* A [Discord channel](https://discordapp.com/channels/916379725201563759/971488439931392130) for requesting test coins that can be used to pay for gas on the test network. These coins have no financial value and will disappear each time we reset the network.

Many improvements to the Sui DevNet are underway, such as the ability to run full nodes and use a browser-based wallet. See the [Sui DevNet blog post](https://medium.com/mysten-labs/sui-devnet-public-release-a2be304ff36b) announcement for full details on upcoming features. All DevNet usage is subject to our [terms of service](https://sui.io/terms/).

## Tools

We provide the following tools for users to interact with the Sui Devnet:

* The [Sui Wallet command line interface (CLI)](../build/wallet.md)
    * create and manage your private keys
    * submit transactions for creating example NFTs
    * call and publish Move modules
* [Sui Explorer](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/explorer/client#readme) - view transactions and objects

## Prerequisites

### Set up environment

You may simply [install Sui](../build/install.md) and then request test tokens as described below. To use the Sui DevNet, you will need:

1. Sui [test coins (tokens)](#request-gas-tokens) requested through [Discord](https://discordapp.com/channels/916379725201563759/971488439931392130).
1. the [`git` command line interface](https://git-scm.com/download/).
1. [Sui binaries](../build/install.md#binaries) in your PATH environment variable, particularly `wallet`.

Remember, you can confirm the existence of a command in your PATH by running `which` followed by the command, for example:

```shell
$ which wallet
```
You should see the path to the command. Otherwise, reinstall.

> **Tip:** To reliably test DevNet with the latest Sui binaries, re-install them at least weekly.

In addition, to conduct advanced work such as publishing a Move module or making a Move call, also obtain the [Sui source code](../build/install.md#source-code); for simplicity, we recommend installing in `~/sui` or using an environment variable.

### Set up wallet, connect to gateway

Now [set up your wallet and connect to DevNet](../build/wallet.md#connect-to-devnet) in a single step. Note you can [manually change the Gateway URL](../build/wallet.md#manually-change-the-gateway-url) if you have already configured a Sui wallet.

> **Tip:** If you run into issues, reset the Sui configuration by removing its directory, by default located at `~/.sui/sui_config`. Then reinstall [Sui binaries](../build/install.md#binaries).

## Basic testing

### Request gas tokens

Request gas tokens by posting your wallet address in the [#devnet-faucet](https://discordapp.com/channels/916379725201563759/971488439931392130) Discord channel if you haven't already and wait for them to be issued.

You can find your wallet address by running:
```shell
$ wallet active-address
```

### Mint an example NFT

To create a Non-Fungible Token (NFT), run:
```shell
$ wallet create-example-nft
```

You will see output resembling:
```shell
Successfully created an ExampleNFT:

ID: ED883F6812AF447B9B0CE220DA5EA9E0F58012FE
Version: 1
Owner: Account Address ( 9E9A9D406961E478AA80F4A6B2B167673F3DF8BA )
Type: 0x2::devnet_nft::DevNetNFT
```

The above command created an object with ID `ED883F6812AF447B9B0CE220DA5EA9E0F58012FE`. Note you may use `wallet` to [view objects owned by the account](https://docs.sui.io/build/wallet#view-objects-owned-by-the-account).

Now you can view the created object in the [Sui Explorer](https://explorer.devnet.sui.io) at:
https://explorer.devnet.sui.io/objects/ED883F6812AF447B9B0CE220DA5EA9E0F58012FE

Replace the object ID in the link above with the object ID of the Example NFT you observed in your own command output to see it in Sui Explorer:

![Example NFT](../../static/example-nft.png "Example NFT")

Note you may easily customize the name, description, or image of the NFT upon creation, like so:
```shell
$ wallet create-example-nft --url=https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76067158/166136286-c60fe70e-b982-4813-932a-0414d0f55cfb.png --description="The greatest chef in the world" --name="Greatest Chef"
```

Which results in a new object ID:
```shell
Successfully created an ExampleNFT:

ID: EC97467A40A1305FFDEF7019C3045FBC7AA31E29
Version: 1
Owner: Account Address ( 9E9A9D406961E478AA80F4A6B2B167673F3DF8BA )
Type: 0x2::devnet_nft::DevNetNFT
```

That you can similarly view at:
https://explorer.devnet.sui.io/objects/EC97467A40A1305FFDEF7019C3045FBC7AA31E29

![Custom NFT](../../static/custom-nft.png "Custom NFT")

See all transactions on the [home page](https://explorer.devnet.sui.io) and find the transaction hash under *Latest Transactions*:

![Explorer home](../../static/explorer-home.png "Explorer home")

To get to the *Transaction Details* view in Sui Explorer after minting an NFT, click on the *Last Transaction ID* field in the *Object View*.

![Transaction details](../../static/transaction-details.png "Transaction details")

Click on any address to see the objects it owns:

![Owned objects](../../static/owned-objects.png "Owned objects")

See the [Sui Explorer README](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/explorer/client#readme) for more details.

## Advanced testing

### Publish a Move module

Publish a sample Move package containing code developed in the [Sui Move tutorial](../build/move.md#writing-a-package) as follows (assuming you installed the source code in `~sui` as advised in set up):
```shell
$ wallet publish --path <your-sui-repo>/sui_programmability/examples/move_tutorial --gas-budget 30000
```

You will see this output:
```shell
----- Certificate ----
Signed Authorities : [k#2266186afd9da10a43dd3ed73d1039c6793d2d8514db6a2407fcf835132e863b, k#1d47ad34e2bc5589882c500345c953b5837e30d6649d315c61690ba7a1e28d23, k#e9599283c0da1ac2eedeb89a56fc49cd8f3c0d8d4ddba9b0a0a5054fe7df3ffd]
Transaction Kind : Publish

----- Publish Results ----
The newly published package object ID: 0689E58788C875E9C354F359792CEC016DA0A1B0
List of objects created by running module initializers:

ID: 898922A9CABE93C6C38C55BBE047BFB0A8C864BF
Version: 1
Owner: Account Address ( F16A5AEDCDF9F2A9C2BD0F077279EC3D5FF0DFEE )
Type: 0x689e58788c875e9c354f359792cec016da0a1b0::M1::Forge

Updated Gas : Coin { id: 58C4DAA98694266F4DF47BA436CD99659B6A5342, value: 49552 }
```

Two important things happened as a result of publishing this package:

* a package object (with ID `0689E58788C875E9C354F359792CEC016DA0A1B0`)  has been created
* a `Forge` object (with ID `898922A9CABE93C6C38C55BBE047BFB0A8C864BF`) has been created as a result of running a [module initializer](../build/move.md#module-initializers) for one (and the only one) module of this package

Specific object IDs displayed above may differ from one Sui installation to the other, so we will use the following placeholders for them (respectively): <PACKAGE_ID> and <FORGE_ID>. Whenever you see these used in the command line, for example when calling Move functions in the next section, *replace them with actual object IDs*.

### Make a Move call

In the previous section, we learned how to publish a Move package; and in this section, we will learn how to call into functions defined in this package. As a result of publishing a package, we obtained the new package object ID (<PACKAGE_ID>) and ID of the `Forge` object (<FORGE_ID>) that can be used to create swords and transfer them to other players.

Let’s assume that the placeholder for the address of the player to receive a sword is <PLAYER_ADDRESS>. If you don’t know any address other than your own, you can create one using the following `wallet` command and use it whenever you see the <PLAYER_ADDRESS> placeholder:
```shell
$ wallet new-address
```

Which yields output resembling:
```shell
Created new keypair for address : 2D32ED71381BEF7F3D8C57B48DF82123593672AA
```

In order to create a sword and transfer it to another player, we use the following command to call the `sword_create` [function](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/sui_programmability/examples/move_tutorial/sources/m1.move#L44) in the `M1` [module](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/sui_programmability/examples/move_tutorial/sources/m1.move#L4) of the package we previously published.

> **Important:** Note placeholders on the command line and formatting of function parameters as it is important to follow the same pattern.

Now run:
```shell
$ wallet call --function sword_create --module M1 --package 0x<PACKAGE_ID> --args \"0x<FORGE_ID>\" 42 7 \"0x<PLAYER_ADDRESS>\" --gas-budget 30000
```

And receive output like:
```shell
----- Certificate ----
Signed Authorities : [k#2266186afd9da10a43dd3ed73d1039c6793d2d8514db6a2407fcf835132e863b, k#1d47ad34e2bc5589882c500345c953b5837e30d6649d315c61690ba7a1e28d23, k#e9599283c0da1ac2eedeb89a56fc49cd8f3c0d8d4ddba9b0a0a5054fe7df3ffd]
Transaction Kind : Call
Package ID : 0x689e58788c875e9c354f359792cec016da0a1b0
Module : M1
Function : sword_create
Arguments : [ImmOrOwnedObject((898922A9CABE93C6C38C55BBE047BFB0A8C864BF, SequenceNumber(1), o#9f12d4390e4fc8de3834c4960c6f265a78eca7c2b916ac1be66c1f00e1b47c68)), Pure([42, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]), Pure([7, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]), Pure([45, 50, 237, 113, 56, 27, 239, 127, 61, 140, 87, 180, 141, 248, 33, 35, 89, 54, 114, 170])]
Type Arguments : []

----- Transaction Effects ----
Status : Success { gas_cost: GasCostSummary { computation_cost: 69, storage_cost: 40, storage_rebate: 27 } }
Created Objects:
  - ID: 2E34983D59E9FC5310CFBAA953D2188E6A84FD21 , Owner: Account Address ( 2D32ED71381BEF7F3D8C57B48DF82123593672AA )
Mutated Objects:
  - ID: 58C4DAA98694266F4DF47BA436CD99659B6A5342 , Owner: Account Address ( ADE6EAD34629411F730416D6AD48F6B382BBC6FD )
  - ID: 898922A9CABE93C6C38C55BBE047BFB0A8C864BF , Owner: Account Address ( ADE6EAD34629411F730416D6AD48F6B382BBC6FD )
```

Go to the Sui Explorer to observe a newly created object (ID `2E34983D59E9FC5310CFBAA953D2188E6A84FD21`, in this example). You should see a sword object created with `Magic` property of `42` and `Strength` property of `7` and transferred to the new owner.

As above, replace object ID in the Explorer link with the object ID of the created object you observed in your own command output:
https://explorer.devnet.sui.io/objects/OBJECT-ID

![Magic sword](../../static/magic-sword.png "Magic sword")

This concludes the Sui DevNet setup and testing instructions. Revisit this page and re-install the binaries regularly to witness and help Sui grow!

Commit message:

Unify sui, wallet, key-tool, sui-move binaries (#2786)
* * unified sui, wallet, key-tool, sui-move binaries
* moved benchmark bins to sui-benchmark crate
* crate dependencies clean up

* name changes

* update wallet.md
some minor refactoring

* update wallet -> Sui CLI client to avoid confusion with the new wallet plugin

* rename wallet.md to cli-client.md

* minor fixes

* revert accidental checkin

* fixup after rebase

* Make small edits directly to renamed cli-client file

* Make small edits directly to install doc

* Fix typo in Chapter 3 - Immutable Objects

* Lowercase "client" for consistency

* Qualify client command with sui

* Capitalize Sui client, add fullnode ref

* fix docker file

Co-authored-by: Clay-Mysten <100217682+Clay-Mysten@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/src/explore/devnet.md, after:

---
title: Experiment with Sui DevNet
---

Welcome to the beginnings of the Sui DevNet. It exists now to gain operational experience with the Sui software in a public setting. The Sui DevNet currently consists of:

* A four-validator network with all nodes operated by Mysten Labs. Clients send transactions and read requests via this endpoint: https://gateway.devnet.sui.io:443/ using [JSON-RPC](../build/json-rpc.md)
* A public network [Sui Explorer](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/explorer/client#readme) for browsing the TestNet transaction history: https://explorer.devnet.sui.io
* A [Discord channel](https://discordapp.com/channels/916379725201563759/971488439931392130) for requesting test coins that can be used to pay for gas on the test network. These coins have no financial value and will disappear each time we reset the network.

Many improvements to the Sui DevNet are underway, such as the ability to run full nodes and use a browser-based wallet. See the [Sui DevNet blog post](https://medium.com/mysten-labs/sui-devnet-public-release-a2be304ff36b) announcement for full details on upcoming features. All DevNet usage is subject to our [terms of service](https://sui.io/terms/).

## Tools

We provide the following tools for users to interact with the Sui Devnet:

* The [Sui Wallet command line interface (CLI)](../build/cli-client.md)
    * create and manage your private keys
    * submit transactions for creating example NFTs
    * call and publish Move modules
* [Sui Explorer](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/explorer/client#readme) - view transactions and objects

## Prerequisites

### Set up environment

You may simply [install Sui](../build/install.md) and then request test tokens as described below. To use the Sui DevNet, you will need:

1. Sui [test coins (tokens)](#request-gas-tokens) requested through [Discord](https://discordapp.com/channels/916379725201563759/971488439931392130).
1. the [`git` command line interface](https://git-scm.com/download/).
1. [Sui binaries](../build/install.md#binaries) in your PATH environment variable, particularly `sui`.

Remember, you can confirm the existence of a command in your PATH by running `which` followed by the command, for example:

```shell
$ which sui
```
You should see the path to the command. Otherwise, reinstall.

> **Tip:** To reliably test DevNet with the latest Sui binaries, re-install them at least weekly.

In addition, to conduct advanced work such as publishing a Move module or making a Move call, also obtain the [Sui source code](../build/install.md#source-code); for simplicity, we recommend installing in `~/sui` or using an environment variable.

### Set up Sui CLI client, connect to gateway

Now [set up your Sui CLI client and connect to DevNet](../build/cli-client.md#connect-to-devnet) in a single step. Note you can [manually change the Gateway URL](../build/cli-client.md#manually-change-the-rpc-server-url) if you have already configured a Sui CLI client.

> **Tip:** If you run into issues, reset the Sui configuration by removing its directory, by default located at `~/.sui/sui_config`. Then reinstall [Sui binaries](../build/install.md#binaries).

## Basic testing

### Request gas tokens

Request gas tokens by posting your address in the [#devnet-faucet](https://discordapp.com/channels/916379725201563759/971488439931392130) Discord channel if you haven't already and wait for them to be issued.

You can find your address by running:
```shell
$ sui client active-address
```

### Mint an example NFT

To create a Non-Fungible Token (NFT), run:
```shell
$ sui client create-example-nft
```

You will see output resembling:
```shell
Successfully created an ExampleNFT:

ID: ED883F6812AF447B9B0CE220DA5EA9E0F58012FE
Version: 1
Owner: Account Address ( 9E9A9D406961E478AA80F4A6B2B167673F3DF8BA )
Type: 0x2::devnet_nft::DevNetNFT
```

The above command created an object with ID `ED883F6812AF447B9B0CE220DA5EA9E0F58012FE`. Note you may use `Sui CLI client` to [view objects owned by the account](https://docs.sui.io/build/wallet#view-objects-owned-by-the-account).

Now you can view the created object in the [Sui Explorer](https://explorer.devnet.sui.io) at:
https://explorer.devnet.sui.io/objects/ED883F6812AF447B9B0CE220DA5EA9E0F58012FE

Replace the object ID in the link above with the object ID of the Example NFT you observed in your own command output to see it in Sui Explorer:

![Example NFT](../../static/example-nft.png "Example NFT")

Note you may easily customize the name, description, or image of the NFT upon creation, like so:
```shell
$ sui client create-example-nft --url=https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76067158/166136286-c60fe70e-b982-4813-932a-0414d0f55cfb.png --description="The greatest chef in the world" --name="Greatest Chef"
```

Which results in a new object ID:
```shell
Successfully created an ExampleNFT:

ID: EC97467A40A1305FFDEF7019C3045FBC7AA31E29
Version: 1
Owner: Account Address ( 9E9A9D406961E478AA80F4A6B2B167673F3DF8BA )
Type: 0x2::devnet_nft::DevNetNFT
```

That you can similarly view at:
https://explorer.devnet.sui.io/objects/EC97467A40A1305FFDEF7019C3045FBC7AA31E29

![Custom NFT](../../static/custom-nft.png "Custom NFT")

See all transactions on the [home page](https://explorer.devnet.sui.io) and find the transaction hash under *Latest Transactions*:

![Explorer home](../../static/explorer-home.png "Explorer home")

To get to the *Transaction Details* view in Sui Explorer after minting an NFT, click on the *Last Transaction ID* field in the *Object View*.

![Transaction details](../../static/transaction-details.png "Transaction details")

Click on any address to see the objects it owns:

![Owned objects](../../static/owned-objects.png "Owned objects")

See the [Sui Explorer README](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/explorer/client#readme) for more details.

## Advanced testing

### Publish a Move module

Publish a sample Move package containing code developed in the [Sui Move tutorial](../build/move.md#writing-a-package) as follows (assuming you installed the source code in `~sui` as advised in set up):
```shell
$ sui client publish --path <your-sui-repo>/sui_programmability/examples/move_tutorial --gas-budget 30000
```

You will see this output:
```shell
----- Certificate ----
Signed Authorities : [k#2266186afd9da10a43dd3ed73d1039c6793d2d8514db6a2407fcf835132e863b, k#1d47ad34e2bc5589882c500345c953b5837e30d6649d315c61690ba7a1e28d23, k#e9599283c0da1ac2eedeb89a56fc49cd8f3c0d8d4ddba9b0a0a5054fe7df3ffd]
Transaction Kind : Publish

----- Publish Results ----
The newly published package object ID: 0689E58788C875E9C354F359792CEC016DA0A1B0
List of objects created by running module initializers:

ID: 898922A9CABE93C6C38C55BBE047BFB0A8C864BF
Version: 1
Owner: Account Address ( F16A5AEDCDF9F2A9C2BD0F077279EC3D5FF0DFEE )
Type: 0x689e58788c875e9c354f359792cec016da0a1b0::M1::Forge

Updated Gas : Coin { id: 58C4DAA98694266F4DF47BA436CD99659B6A5342, value: 49552 }
```

Two important things happened as a result of publishing this package:

* a package object (with ID `0689E58788C875E9C354F359792CEC016DA0A1B0`)  has been created
* a `Forge` object (with ID `898922A9CABE93C6C38C55BBE047BFB0A8C864BF`) has been created as a result of running a [module initializer](../build/move.md#module-initializers) for one (and the only one) module of this package

Specific object IDs displayed above may differ from one Sui installation to the other, so we will use the following placeholders for them (respectively): <PACKAGE_ID> and <FORGE_ID>. Whenever you see these used in the command line, for example when calling Move functions in the next section, *replace them with actual object IDs*.

### Make a Move call

In the previous section, we learned how to publish a Move package; and in this section, we will learn how to call into functions defined in this package. As a result of publishing a package, we obtained the new package object ID (<PACKAGE_ID>) and ID of the `Forge` object (<FORGE_ID>) that can be used to create swords and transfer them to other players.

Let’s assume that the placeholder for the address of the player to receive a sword is <PLAYER_ADDRESS>. If you don’t know any address other than your own, you can create one using the following `client` command and use it whenever you see the <PLAYER_ADDRESS> placeholder:
```shell
$ sui client new-address
```

Which yields output resembling:
```shell
Created new keypair for address : 2D32ED71381BEF7F3D8C57B48DF82123593672AA
```

In order to create a sword and transfer it to another player, we use the following command to call the `sword_create` [function](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/sui_programmability/examples/move_tutorial/sources/m1.move#L44) in the `M1` [module](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/sui_programmability/examples/move_tutorial/sources/m1.move#L4) of the package we previously published.

> **Important:** Note placeholders on the command line and formatting of function parameters as it is important to follow the same pattern.

Now run:
```shell
$ sui client call --function sword_create --module M1 --package 0x<PACKAGE_ID> --args \"0x<FORGE_ID>\" 42 7 \"0x<PLAYER_ADDRESS>\" --gas-budget 30000
```

And receive output like:
```shell
----- Certificate ----
Signed Authorities : [k#2266186afd9da10a43dd3ed73d1039c6793d2d8514db6a2407fcf835132e863b, k#1d47ad34e2bc5589882c500345c953b5837e30d6649d315c61690ba7a1e28d23, k#e9599283c0da1ac2eedeb89a56fc49cd8f3c0d8d4ddba9b0a0a5054fe7df3ffd]
Transaction Kind : Call
Package ID : 0x689e58788c875e9c354f359792cec016da0a1b0
Module : M1
Function : sword_create
Arguments : [ImmOrOwnedObject((898922A9CABE93C6C38C55BBE047BFB0A8C864BF, SequenceNumber(1), o#9f12d4390e4fc8de3834c4960c6f265a78eca7c2b916ac1be66c1f00e1b47c68)), Pure([42, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]), Pure([7, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]), Pure([45, 50, 237, 113, 56, 27, 239, 127, 61, 140, 87, 180, 141, 248, 33, 35, 89, 54, 114, 170])]
Type Arguments : []

----- Transaction Effects ----
Status : Success { gas_cost: GasCostSummary { computation_cost: 69, storage_cost: 40, storage_rebate: 27 } }
Created Objects:
  - ID: 2E34983D59E9FC5310CFBAA953D2188E6A84FD21 , Owner: Account Address ( 2D32ED71381BEF7F3D8C57B48DF82123593672AA )
Mutated Objects:
  - ID: 58C4DAA98694266F4DF47BA436CD99659B6A5342 , Owner: Account Address ( ADE6EAD34629411F730416D6AD48F6B382BBC6FD )
  - ID: 898922A9CABE93C6C38C55BBE047BFB0A8C864BF , Owner: Account Address ( ADE6EAD34629411F730416D6AD48F6B382BBC6FD )
```

Go to the Sui Explorer to observe a newly created object (ID `2E34983D59E9FC5310CFBAA953D2188E6A84FD21`, in this example). You should see a sword object created with `Magic` property of `42` and `Strength` property of `7` and transferred to the new owner.

As above, replace object ID in the Explorer link with the object ID of the created object you observed in your own command output:
https://explorer.devnet.sui.io/objects/OBJECT-ID

![Magic sword](../../static/magic-sword.png "Magic sword")

This concludes the Sui DevNet setup and testing instructions. Revisit this page and re-install the binaries regularly to witness and help Sui grow!
